hi I'm Miriam from BBC good food and I'm
going to show you some basic piping
techniques the first technique I'm going
to show you is just sort of doing little
dots and lines which is really good for
writing or in this case I'm going to use
this technique to decorate some
gingerbread all I'm doing is pushing the
icing through from the top and then
using my other hand to guide the icing
in place you need to make sure the
consistency of the icing is right if
it's too runny it'll flow out and make a
mess and if it's too firm that you won't
be able to push it out in a nice and
neat way using a small round tip like
this as you can do dots and lines which
means you can write as before pushing
from the top to get a nice steady flow
through the nozzle long and then that
same down-up motion
just stop the icing you may find joined
up right a little bit easier you can
push the icing out in one long strip
next thing I'm going to show you is
piping with buttercream and for this
I've used star-shaped nozzle and on my
favorite cakes I'm just gonna hold the
nozzle straight swirl the bus cream
around and then stop into that ring do
the same again slightly overlapping down
and then up to finish if you like you
can use the same dot technique for the
star nozzle and then you get this really
lovely flower design if you're not
feeling confident in your design or
you're unhappy with the finish
add a little edible decoration or just
turn them round so you can't see the
join and now we are basic piping
techniques from BBC good feed
[Music]